The dataset is downloaded from Kaggle and it is published by Rıdvan Sözen: https://www.kaggle.com/rdvnszn34/life-expectancy-data-world-bank
The data is gathered from World Bank and I wanted to figure out what are the biggest factors when estimating country's life excpectancy. I wanted to create a predictive 
model to further investigate the correlation between certain predictors and the target variable.

It seems that the GDPPerCapita and infant death rate have the highest correlation with life excpectancy. "Life expectancy at birth reflects the overall mortality level
of a population. It summarizes the mortality pattern that prevails across all age groups in a given year – children and adolescents, adults and the elderly." -WHO.
It is easy to come up with an intuition that high infant death rate lowers the country's life excpectancy drastically. GDPPerCapita indicates how able the country is to
provide healthcare and good living conditions so that it is safer for mothers to give birth and take care of their children.

I created multiple linear regression models based on the fact that our target variable is continuous, so this is clearly a regression problem, not a classification one.
I transformed some data in order to eliminate skewness so that I can fit linear regression model on it more fluently.  The cross-validation accuracy score for the model
is more than 80% with some variance on it. Other predictors had no impact on the performance of the model so I decided not to include them. Finally I validated the 
model with new data of 2015 values gathered from World Bank.

I made this project to improve my data cleaning skills and that is the reason why I didn't fix or fill any values with information gathered from the internet.
That being said I wanted to work with dirty data and to come up with ideas on how to fill the missing values with appropriate methods.
The dataset is dirty enough for me to practise data cleaning methods. There are empty rows and values and there are two identical columns.

The biggest issue was to work with variables with no exact definitions. Country's developement status is not straightly correletated to the country's ability to 
provide healthcare and thus life excpectancy and the highly correlated infant death rate are not guaranteed to be low in countries that claim themselves to be
"developing". 

I decided to drop China from the samples, the reason being that there were not enough filled variables and it is very hard to come up with conclusions on what to
fill the empty values with based on it's developement status because China is somewhere between developing and developed.

I'm having open questions whether or not it is acceptable to normalize skewed data using transformations (log, sqrt, power fuction etc.) as the transformed data and
original data may not be interpretable in the same way for research purposes. Here's an article related to the question at hand:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4120293/?fbclid=IwAR2m1V2D2JWzmSEEkQgBh_2UjBG9XIFm22-MQTAKMYV2LqpgsT7Q5qgFbrQ#!po=23.4375

IN ORDER TO TEST THE MODEL ON REAL DATA, YOU HAVE TO USE LOGARITHMIC TRANSFORMATION ON THE PREDICTORS AND FOURTH ROOT ON THE PREDICTION DATA.

-Jasper Niittyvuopio
